Release Notes 17.0 (#21275)
opf/openproject: docs/release-notes/17-0-0/README.md

sidebar_navigation:
    title: 17.0.0
release_version: 17.0.0
release_date: 2025-12-17
---

# OpenProject 17.0.0

Release date: 2025-12-17

We released [OpenProject 17.0.0](https://community.openproject.org/versions/2233).
The release contains several bug fixes and we recommend updating to the newest version.
In these Release Notes, we will give an overview of important feature changes. At the end, you will find a complete list of all changes and bug fixes.

## Important feature changes

> Take a look at our release video showing the most important features introduced in OpenProject 16.6.0:

Reviewer: Should probably be 17.0?
```suggestion
Take a look at our release video showing the most important features introduced in OpenProject 17.0.0:
```

This new option helps organizations meet stricter security and compliance requirements while preserving all existing functionality.

When configuring SharePoint storage, administrators now benefit from:

- Separate, clearer setup options for OneDrive and SharePoint.
- Support for the *Sites.Selected* permission scope, requiring a SharePoint Site ID.
- Improved helper texts and documentation links.
- Enhanced validation and error messages during configuration.

OpenProject continues to support both the legacy permission model and the new *Sites.Selected* approach, allowing administrators to choose whichever fits their security standards.

screenshot

### Redesigned project overview with new tabs, configurable widgets, and an improved layout

OpenProject 17.0 introduces a **major redesign of the project overview**, making key information easier to understand and share.

The page is now split into two tabs:

> - **Overview** — a clean, structured summary with fixed widgets such as description, status, members, subprojects, news, lifecycle dates, and project attributes.

Reviewer: Subproject might not be correct. In theory, the widget shows not only subprojects, but also subprograms. I am aware that subitems is very vague however, so subprojects might still be better than this 🤷

- **Dashboard** — the fully editable area for custom widgets, now without the previous right-hand panel.

> The redesign also introduces **new widgets** (Budget, Sub-items) and improves existing ones through updated Primer styling. Administrators can additionally decide whether specific **project attribute sections** appear in the sidebar or directly in the main Overview as dedicated widgets.

Reviewer: Budgets will only come with 17.1.
We also had a lenghty discussion about whether subitems should be written with or without a dash. In the end, we decided to go with the option without a dash.

![OpenProject Project home showing both the Overview tab and the Dashboard tab](openproject-17-0-home-dashboard-overview.jpg)

### Improved project creation flow with better template selection

> Creating new projects is now easier and more structured. The template selection has been moved to a **dedicated first step**, offering a clearer visual layout and better guidance. After choosing a template or a blank project, users proceed to the regular creation form.

Reviewer: > users proceed to the regular creation form the regular creation form

Actually, there is one other detail which I don't know whether it is worth mentioning.. Before 17.0, we showed copy options when selecting a template. That grey box got removed now and is only shown when actually copying a project.

<img width="300" height="500" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fdb4fb87-1450-4e55-badd-9f3870ec454b" />

screenshot

### Smarter global search including type and status, improving precision in several autocompleters

The global search now understands **work package type**, **status**, and **meta-status** (open/closed). This makes it much easier to find the right item in projects with many similarly named work packages.

Examples:

- Searching for *bug* shows only work packages of type *Bug*.
- Searching for *bug new* shows only work packages of typ *Bug* and status *New*.
- Searching for *open* shows only items in an open status.

These improvements **also benefit several autocompleters throughout the application**, such as the `#` and `##` work package quick-link references in comments and descriptions, helping users filter large datasets more precisely.

![Global search bar in OpenProject, "bug new" is typed in and two work packages of type bug and status new are displayed](openproject-17-0-search.png)

### Accessibility improvements with ALT texts and improved chart colors

OpenProject 17.0 continues the accessibility initiative with several enhancements:

> - Meaningful ALT text added to functional images (e.g., avatars, document previews).

Reviewer: What are document previews? Depending on what that is, I don't know whether this is really true..

- Decorative images are now correctly marked to be skipped by screen readers.
- Charts on the project overview include improved color contrast and descriptive summaries to support assistive technologies.
- The Gantt chart is now hidden from screen readers to avoid confusing non-informational output.

These improvements make OpenProject easier to navigate for users relying on screen readers or high-contrast environments.

### Enhanced project attribute help texts with captions and direct editing

> Administrators can now **manage attribute help texts directly from each project attribute or custom field** without navigating to the separate *Attribute help texts* section. Additionally, a new **caption** field allows adding short clarifying text shown below input fields in forms to guide users more effectively.

Reviewer: I don't know whether we should mention that displaying the caption currently only works for project attributes but not for WorkPackage custom fields?

sidebar_navigation:
    title: 17.0.0
release_version: 17.0.0
release_date: 2025-12-17
---

# OpenProject 17.0.0

Release date: 2025-12-17

We released [OpenProject 17.0.0](https://community.openproject.org/versions/2233).
The release contains several bug fixes and we recommend updating to the newest version.
In these Release Notes, we will give an overview of important feature changes. At the end, you will find a complete list of all changes and bug fixes.

## Important feature changes

> Take a look at our release video showing the most important features introduced in OpenProject 16.6.0:

Reviewer 2: @corinnaguenther Is it correct that we promote the video for 16.6.0 here?

Author: @wielinde This should be fixed already, although it's just a placeholder right now, as the release video for 17.0 is not ready yet. Thank you!
